README.md, before:

# figgy-pudding [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/figgy-pudding.svg)](https://npm.im/figgy-pudding) [![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/figgy-pudding.svg)](https://npm.im/figgy-pudding) [![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/zkat/figgy-pudding.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/zkat/figgy-pudding) [![AppVeyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/zkat/figgy-pudding?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/zkat/figgy-pudding) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/zkat/figgy-pudding/badge.svg?branch=latest)](https://coveralls.io/github/zkat/figgy-pudding?branch=latest)

[`figgy-pudding`](https://github.com/zkat/figgy-pudding) is a small JavaScript
library for managing and composing cascading options objects -- hiding what
needs to be hidden from each layer, without having to do a lot of manual munging
and passing of options.

### The God Object is Dead!
### Now Bring Us Some Figgy Pudding!

## Install

`$ npm install figgy-pudding`

## Table of Contents

* [Example](#example)
* [Features](#features)
* [API](#api)
  * [`figgyPudding(spec)`](#figgy-pudding)
  * [`PuddingFactory(values)`](#pudding-factory)
    * [`opts.get()`](#opts-get)
    * [`opts.concat()`](#opts-concat)
    * [`opts.toJSON()`](#opts-to-json)
    * [`opts.forEach()`](#opts-for-each)
    * [`opts[Symbol.iterator]()`](#opts-symbol-iterator)
    * [`opts.entries()`](#opts-entries)
    * [`opts.keys()`](#opts-keys)
    * [`opts.value()`](#opts-values)

### Example

```javascript
// print-package.js
const fetch = require('./fetch.js')
const puddin = require('figgy-pudding')

const PrintOpts = puddin({
  json: { default: false }
})

async function printPkg (name, opts) {
  // Expected pattern is to call this in every interface function. If `opts` is
  // not passed in, it will automatically create an (empty) object for it.
  opts = PrintOpts(opts)
  const uri = `https://registry.npmjs.com/${name}`
  const res = await fetch(uri, opts.concat({
    // Add or override any passed-in configs and pass them down.
    log: customLogger
  }))
  // The following would throw an error, because it's not in PrintOpts:
  // console.log(opts.log)
  if (opts.json) {
    return res.json()
  } else {
    return res.text()
  }
}

console.log(await printPkg('figgy', {
  // Pass in *all* configs at the toplevel, as a regular object.
  json: true,
  cache: './tmp-cache'
}))
```

```javascript
// fetch.js
const puddin = require('figgy-pudding')

const FetchOpts = puddin({
  log: { default: require('npmlog') },
  cache: {}
})

module.exports = async function (..., opts) {
  opts = FetchOpts(opts)
}
```

### Features

* hide options from layer that didn't ask for it
* shared multi-layer options
* make sure `opts` argument is available
* transparent key access like normal keys, through a Proxy. No need for`.get()`!
* default values
* key aliases
* arbitrary key filter functions
* key/value iteration
* serialization
* 100% test coverage using `tap --100`

### API

#### <a name="figgy-pudding"></a> `> figgyPudding({ key: { default: val } | String }, [opts]) -> PuddingFactory`

Defines an Options constructor that can be used to collect only the needed
options.

An optional `default` property for specs can be used to specify default values
if nothing was passed in.

If the value for a spec is a string, it will be treated as an alias to that
other key.

##### Example

```javascript
const MyAppOpts = figgyPudding({
  lg: 'log',
  log: {
    default: () => require('npmlog')
  },
  cache: {}
})
```

#### <a name="pudding-factory"></a> `> PuddingFactory(...providers) -> FiggyPudding{}`

Instantiates an options object defined by `figgyPudding()`, which uses
`providers`, in order, to find requested properties.

Each provider can be either a plain object, a `Map`-like object (that is, one
with a `.get()` method) or another figgyPudding `Opts` object.

When nesting `Opts` objects, their properties will not become available to the
new object, but any further nested `Opts` that reference that property _will_ be
able to read from their grandparent, as long as they define that key. Default
values for nested `Opts` parents will be used, if found.

##### Example

```javascript
const ReqOpts = figgyPudding({
  follow: {}
})

const opts = ReqOpts({
  follow: true,
  log: require('npmlog')
})

opts.follow // => true
opts.log // => Error: ReqOpts does not define `log`

const MoreOpts = figgyPudding({
  log: {}
})
MoreOpts(opts).log // => npmlog object (passed in from original plain obj)
MoreOpts(opts).follow // => Error: MoreOpts does not define `follow`
```

#### <a name="opts-get"></a> `> opts.get(key) -> Value`

Gets a value from the options object.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts(config)
opts.get('foo') // value of `foo`
opts.foo // Proxy-based access through `.get()`
```

#### <a name="opts-concat"></a> `> opts.concat(...moreProviders) -> FiggyPudding{}`

Creates a new opts object of the same type as `opts` with additional providers.
Providers further to the right shadow providers to the left, with properties in
the original `opts` being shadows by the new providers.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1})
opts.get('x') // 1
opts.concat({x: 2}).get('x') // 2
opts.get('x') // 1 (original opts object left intact)
```

#### <a name="opts-to-json"></a> `> opts.toJSON() -> Value`

Converts `opts` to a plain, JSON-stringifiable JavaScript value. Used internally
by JavaScript to get `JSON.stringify()` working.

Only keys that are readable by the current pudding type will be serialized.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1})
opts.toJSON() // {x: 1}
JSON.stringify(opts) // '{"x":1}'
```

#### <a name="opts-for-each"></a> `> opts.forEach((value, key, opts) => {}, thisArg) -> undefined`

Iterates over the values of `opts`, limited to the keys readable by the current
pudding type. `thisArg` will be used to set the `this` argument when calling the
`fn`.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
opts.forEach((value, key) => console.log(key, '=', value))
```

#### <a name="opts-entries"></a> `> opts.entries() -> Iterator<[[key, value], ...]>`

Returns an iterator that iterates over the keys and values in `opts`, limited to
the keys readable by the current pudding type. Each iteration returns an array
of `[key, value]`.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
[...opts({x: 1, y: 2}).entries()] // [['x', 1], ['y', 2]]
```

#### <a name="opts-symbol-iterator"></a> `> opts[Symbol.iterator]() -> Iterator<[[key, value], ...]>`

Returns an iterator that iterates over the keys and values in `opts`, limited to
the keys readable by the current pudding type. Each iteration returns an array
of `[key, value]`. Makes puddings work natively with JS iteration mechanisms.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
[...opts({x: 1, y: 2})] // [['x', 1], ['y', 2]]
for (let [key, value] of opts({x: 1, y: 2})) {
  console.log(key, '=', value)
}
```

#### <a name="opts-keys"></a> `> opts.keys() -> Iterator<[key, ...]>`

Returns an iterator that iterates over the keys in `opts`, limited to the keys
readable by the current pudding type.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
[...opts({x: 1, y: 2}).keys()] // ['x', 'y']
```

#### <a name="opts-values"></a> `> opts.values() -> Iterator<[value, ...]>`

Returns an iterator that iterates over the values in `opts`, limited to the keys
readable by the current pudding type.

##### Example
'
```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
[...opts({x: 1, y: 2}).values()] // [1, 2]
```

Commit message:

chore: update project settings, add deprecation note to readme

README.md, after:

# Note: pending imminent deprecation

**This module will be deprecated once npm v7 is released.  Please do not rely
on it more than absolutely necessary (ie, only if you are depending on
it for use with npm v6 internal dependencies).**

----

# figgy-pudding [![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/figgy-pudding.svg)](https://npm.im/figgy-pudding) [![license](https://img.shields.io/npm/l/figgy-pudding.svg)](https://npm.im/figgy-pudding) [![Travis](https://img.shields.io/travis/npm/figgy-pudding.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/npm/figgy-pudding) [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/npm/figgy-pudding/badge.svg?branch=latest)](https://coveralls.io/github/npm/figgy-pudding?branch=latest)

[`figgy-pudding`](https://github.com/npm/figgy-pudding) is a small JavaScript
library for managing and composing cascading options objects -- hiding what
needs to be hidden from each layer, without having to do a lot of manual munging
and passing of options.

### The God Object is Dead!
### Now Bring Us Some Figgy Pudding!

## Install

`$ npm install figgy-pudding`

## Table of Contents

* [Example](#example)
* [Features](#features)
* [API](#api)
  * [`figgyPudding(spec)`](#figgy-pudding)
  * [`PuddingFactory(values)`](#pudding-factory)
    * [`opts.get()`](#opts-get)
    * [`opts.concat()`](#opts-concat)
    * [`opts.toJSON()`](#opts-to-json)
    * [`opts.forEach()`](#opts-for-each)
    * [`opts[Symbol.iterator]()`](#opts-symbol-iterator)
    * [`opts.entries()`](#opts-entries)
    * [`opts.keys()`](#opts-keys)
    * [`opts.value()`](#opts-values)

### Example

```javascript
// print-package.js
const fetch = require('./fetch.js')
const puddin = require('figgy-pudding')

const PrintOpts = puddin({
  json: { default: false }
})

async function printPkg (name, opts) {
  // Expected pattern is to call this in every interface function. If `opts` is
  // not passed in, it will automatically create an (empty) object for it.
  opts = PrintOpts(opts)
  const uri = `https://registry.npmjs.com/${name}`
  const res = await fetch(uri, opts.concat({
    // Add or override any passed-in configs and pass them down.
    log: customLogger
  }))
  // The following would throw an error, because it's not in PrintOpts:
  // console.log(opts.log)
  if (opts.json) {
    return res.json()
  } else {
    return res.text()
  }
}

console.log(await printPkg('figgy', {
  // Pass in *all* configs at the toplevel, as a regular object.
  json: true,
  cache: './tmp-cache'
}))
```

```javascript
// fetch.js
const puddin = require('figgy-pudding')

const FetchOpts = puddin({
  log: { default: require('npmlog') },
  cache: {}
})

module.exports = async function (..., opts) {
  opts = FetchOpts(opts)
}
```

### Features

* hide options from layer that didn't ask for it
* shared multi-layer options
* make sure `opts` argument is available
* transparent key access like normal keys, through a Proxy. No need for`.get()`!
* default values
* key aliases
* arbitrary key filter functions
* key/value iteration
* serialization
* 100% test coverage using `tap --100`

### API

#### <a name="figgy-pudding"></a> `> figgyPudding({ key: { default: val } | String }, [opts]) -> PuddingFactory`

Defines an Options constructor that can be used to collect only the needed
options.

An optional `default` property for specs can be used to specify default values
if nothing was passed in.

If the value for a spec is a string, it will be treated as an alias to that
other key.

##### Example

```javascript
const MyAppOpts = figgyPudding({
  lg: 'log',
  log: {
    default: () => require('npmlog')
  },
  cache: {}
})
```

#### <a name="pudding-factory"></a> `> PuddingFactory(...providers) -> FiggyPudding{}`

Instantiates an options object defined by `figgyPudding()`, which uses
`providers`, in order, to find requested properties.

Each provider can be either a plain object, a `Map`-like object (that is, one
with a `.get()` method) or another figgyPudding `Opts` object.

When nesting `Opts` objects, their properties will not become available to the
new object, but any further nested `Opts` that reference that property _will_ be
able to read from their grandparent, as long as they define that key. Default
values for nested `Opts` parents will be used, if found.

##### Example

```javascript
const ReqOpts = figgyPudding({
  follow: {}
})

const opts = ReqOpts({
  follow: true,
  log: require('npmlog')
})

opts.follow // => true
opts.log // => Error: ReqOpts does not define `log`

const MoreOpts = figgyPudding({
  log: {}
})
MoreOpts(opts).log // => npmlog object (passed in from original plain obj)
MoreOpts(opts).follow // => Error: MoreOpts does not define `follow`
```

#### <a name="opts-get"></a> `> opts.get(key) -> Value`

Gets a value from the options object.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts(config)
opts.get('foo') // value of `foo`
opts.foo // Proxy-based access through `.get()`
```

#### <a name="opts-concat"></a> `> opts.concat(...moreProviders) -> FiggyPudding{}`

Creates a new opts object of the same type as `opts` with additional providers.
Providers further to the right shadow providers to the left, with properties in
the original `opts` being shadows by the new providers.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1})
opts.get('x') // 1
opts.concat({x: 2}).get('x') // 2
opts.get('x') // 1 (original opts object left intact)
```

#### <a name="opts-to-json"></a> `> opts.toJSON() -> Value`

Converts `opts` to a plain, JSON-stringifiable JavaScript value. Used internally
by JavaScript to get `JSON.stringify()` working.

Only keys that are readable by the current pudding type will be serialized.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1})
opts.toJSON() // {x: 1}
JSON.stringify(opts) // '{"x":1}'
```

#### <a name="opts-for-each"></a> `> opts.forEach((value, key, opts) => {}, thisArg) -> undefined`

Iterates over the values of `opts`, limited to the keys readable by the current
pudding type. `thisArg` will be used to set the `this` argument when calling the
`fn`.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
opts.forEach((value, key) => console.log(key, '=', value))
```

#### <a name="opts-entries"></a> `> opts.entries() -> Iterator<[[key, value], ...]>`

Returns an iterator that iterates over the keys and values in `opts`, limited to
the keys readable by the current pudding type. Each iteration returns an array
of `[key, value]`.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
[...opts({x: 1, y: 2}).entries()] // [['x', 1], ['y', 2]]
```

#### <a name="opts-symbol-iterator"></a> `> opts[Symbol.iterator]() -> Iterator<[[key, value], ...]>`

Returns an iterator that iterates over the keys and values in `opts`, limited to
the keys readable by the current pudding type. Each iteration returns an array
of `[key, value]`. Makes puddings work natively with JS iteration mechanisms.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
[...opts({x: 1, y: 2})] // [['x', 1], ['y', 2]]
for (let [key, value] of opts({x: 1, y: 2})) {
  console.log(key, '=', value)
}
```

#### <a name="opts-keys"></a> `> opts.keys() -> Iterator<[key, ...]>`

Returns an iterator that iterates over the keys in `opts`, limited to the keys
readable by the current pudding type.

##### Example

```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
[...opts({x: 1, y: 2}).keys()] // ['x', 'y']
```

#### <a name="opts-values"></a> `> opts.values() -> Iterator<[value, ...]>`

Returns an iterator that iterates over the values in `opts`, limited to the keys
readable by the current pudding type.

##### Example
'
```js
const opts = MyOpts({x: 1, y: 2})
[...opts({x: 1, y: 2}).values()] // [1, 2]
```
